Execution.md, before:

## Initial Design of Execution

- General Interest
    - join the mail list
    - event notice
    - updates
- Participation
    - slack
        - announcement, time by time
            - meeting
            - agenda
        - IM
            - discussion suppliment
            - small group meeting progress tracking
        - resource directing
            - contents
            - contacts
        - regular work log
            - proposal brainstorming
            - co-development log
    - hierarchical google hangout meeting
        - general meeting
            - announcement, briefing/reporting
            - instant feedback/voting
        - small group discussion, 5 per group
        - consolidating meetings
    - workflow
        - general meeting, agenda
        - small group discussion, 5 per group
        - slack consolidation per topic
        - consolidating meeting, representative, additional feedbacks
        - general meeting, report/vote
- Contribution
    - GitHub curation/consolidation
        - meeting minutes
        - blog posts
        - development
        - managemen decisions
    - peer management
        - moderation
            - meeting
            - contents
            - dev tickets
        - evaluations
            - involvement
            - contribution
            - credibility

Commit message:

a toy model to start a constructive team

Execution.md, after:

## Initial Design of Execution

A toy model to crowd-form a collaborative team before tools are developped. 

- General Interest
    - join the mail list
    - event notice
    - updates
- Participation
    - slack
        - announcement, time by time
            - meeting
            - agenda
        - IM
            - discussion suppliment
            - small group meeting progress tracking
        - resource directing
            - contents
            - contacts
        - regular work log
            - proposal brainstorming
            - co-development log
    - hierarchical google hangout meeting
        - general meeting
            - announcement, briefing/reporting
            - instant feedback/voting
        - small group discussion, 5 per group
        - consolidating meetings
    - workflow
        - general meeting, agenda
        - small group discussion, 5 per group
        - slack consolidation per topic
        - consolidating meeting, representative, additional feedbacks
        - general meeting, report/vote
- Contribution
    - GitHub curation/consolidation
        - meeting minutes
        - blog posts
        - development
        - managemen decisions
    - peer management
        - moderation
            - meeting
            - contents
            - dev tickets
        - evaluations
            - involvement
            - contribution
            - credibility
